greetings everyone around the world in
50 countries Lazlo Montgomery here once
again with another China history podcast
episode we're going to explore the Shang
Dynasty today if the Shah dynasty which
we discussed in the last podcast was a
legendary dynasty then we could call the
Shang a semi legendary dynasty the Shah
and Shang have a lot in common they both
have legendary beginnings that start
with a virtuous and great leader who is
beloved by the people then you have the
succession and then a lot of blank spots
then in the end you had a wicked tyrant
who was hated by the people and
ultimately overthrown the Shah had
Emperor Jia the Shang had D XI who went
down in history as Joel Xin I'm jumping
way ahead but just trying to show you
how both dynasties had similar rises and
falls
unlike the Shah which made a slow and
steady march downhill the Shang had a
great revival two-thirds of the way into
the dynastic period and it's really the
last couple centuries of the Shang
that's particularly interesting the
Shang definitely has a lot more to hang
on to than the Shah even to this day the
great historiographers archaeologists
and scientists China has to offer are
still analyzing the treasure trove of
Shang artifacts that continue to be
unearthed even to this day already
eleven palaces have been discovered in
and around onion in Hunan Province
believe it or not it was only in the
20th century that we learned this
dynasty actually existed so much in
rites all about the Shang into his Shoji
or records of the grand historian so
it's not like we never heard of the
Shang before in his great work somach n
enumerated all the Shang Kings more
about this later I don't want to jump
too far ahead I'm just trying to whet
your appetite a little like the
preceding Shah dynasty the start and
finish dates of the Shang are open to
debate
in 1996 the China government launched
the Xiao Zhong : de Gong Chun or a
chronology report on the Xiao Zhong Joe
to set down a more accurate time
stamping for these first three Bronze
Age dynasty
in November 2000 the results were
announced and they pegged the Shah at
2070 BC to 1600 BC and the Shang was
split up from 1600 to 1300 BC for the
early Shung in 1302 1046 BC for the late
Shang the Jo which we will discuss next
in another podcast ran from 1046 to 771
BC the Shang ran during the middle of
China's Bronze Age in other faraway
lands at this time Egypt is already a
mighty empire it was the period of the
great 18th dynasty the most famous and
ancient Egyptian history it was the time
of many of the most famous Pharaohs like
Tutankhamun the Tuck Moses hatshepsut
Akhenaten and Nefertiti the New Kingdom
and Egypt was just starting the Shang
period in China was also concurrent with
the time when Moses of the Old Testament
fame was born in Egypt in 1612 BC this
means was also the time of Ramses the
1st and 2nd this was just as the Shah
was dying out than the Shang was
starting to rise elsewhere in the world
the temple at Delphi was built in Greece
Mycenaean and Minoan culture was going
on 11:49 BC would have been the time of
the Trojan War so as Chinese
civilization was just starting to take
shape and organize and consolidate all
these other civilizations were thriving
and developing on separate continents
all independent of each other even in
China there were more civilizations
going on than simply the Xiang but it
was only the Shang Dynasty civilisation
that left behind written records of
their existence in 1987 there was an
exciting archaeological discovery and su
chuan near Chengdu the place was called
sunshine Bay or three stars Mound
lots of artifacts left behind like
beautiful Jade's and bronzes attesting
to a rather advanced people but one
thing they didn't leave behind was any
written record of their time unlike the
Xiang people's developing up around
Conan who Bay Shandong in northern
kWe this civilization down in the
Chengdu region had not yet developed
writing so let's go with 1600 BC as the
start of the dynasty like the Shah
dynasty founder knew the great the Shang
also had another heroic founder he came
to be known as Chun Tong he was named
Zulu his ancestor Chi had helped you the
great tame the Yellow River floods way
back when and his family was given the
land of Zhang as a reward now the time
of Chun Tong was already fourteen
generations later and by this time the
Shang was already another powerful state
in its own right as I mentioned in the
last podcast Chun Tong defeated the
wicked and evil emperor Jia at the
Battle of minty AO Chun Tong founded the
dynasty and drought strikes immediately
after about seven years of suffering
this drought Qing Tong went before
heaven and prostrated himself on the
altar presumably at some high temple and
reproached himself before heaven and
offered to present himself as a
sacrifice to Chandi if he would only
bring rain to the drought-stricken land
well as the legend goes it started to
rain soon thereafter and the farmers
rejoiced and Tong tongs reputation and
esteem as a ruler in a hero skyrocketed
so you the great who founded the sha
dynasty he tamed the floods Chun Tong
who founded the Xiong he was able to get
the heavens to rain down upon the land
water is life the capital of the new
Shang government was in jeongjo near the
present-day capital of Hunan province
the capital of the Shang Dynasty moved
around a lot if you form a triangle
between the three cities of jeong cho
yong and boy yang that covers the areas
where most of the Xiong palaces and
major cities have been excavated it was
after the seventh and final move of the
capital to a place called yin where the
Shang Dynasty reached its apex at the
capital of Yi ng 12 Kings rule
over two hundred and fifty five years
until the xiang period came to an end
and the Jo took over as I said the Shan
worshiped the god Shang D in Mandarin
the word for God is Shang D Shang means
above D means Emperor so this deity was
above the Emperor and the Emperor
through his special relationship with
all the ancestors held particular
closeness with Shang D however chandi
the Shang supreme deity was the main god
among several the Shang religion was not
monotheistic by any stretch of the
imagination they were very big on
sacrificing animals and they were strong
followers of ancestral worship and
revered their ancestors the Xiang people
believed in an afterlife and took tomb
building and burial in general very
seriously before we go through various
vignettes through this dynastic period
let's zero in on the for contributions
to Chinese civilization that we can say
came from the Shang period these are the
aspects of the Shang that really defined
the dynasty and what we most remember
them for first and foremost writing is
seen for the first time in Chinese
history
more about this later the second was the
social organization of the country into
a very stratified system where everyone
had a place and the aristocrats and
royal family stood at the apex of Shang
Society all these Nobles were beholden
to the king and they controlled the
outlying areas too far from the capital
and the King's everyday control the
priests had a dual role in Shang Society
not only were they entrusted with the
job of performing old rituals and
religious matters they were also the
bureaucrats of the kingdom and handled
all the day-to-day affairs of the
government the third aspect that we can
say defines the Shang is their mastery
of bronze casting and their bronze
making technological standard a lot
survives to this day and it's beautiful
the fourth and last thing special about
the Shan were their use of bronze and
their effective weaponry this included
everything from spares to chariots in
those days bronze meant power wealth
luxury it was only for those who
at the Imperial courts or the
aristocrats who had bronze in their
daily life
bronze wasn't anything that the peasants
possessed or came in contact with all
these bronze objects were basically
either one of two things bronze was used
to make weapons or ceremonial vessels
never for common tools I'm sure everyone
knows this but just in case bronze is a
metal alloy made up mostly of copper
with tin you can't imagine how much of
this stuff has been dug up over the last
century in the final years of the Shang
especially during the Gein Shang period
important events and records were
inscribed or cast in bronze ceremonial
objects the Shang people because of
their superior bronze making technology
were able to make more effective weapons
like spares compound bows and better
horse-drawn chariots
this made them the conquerors to beat of
their time so much in wrote in the
assured G that there were a total of 30
Shang rulers covering roughly 600 years
court officials belong to a hereditary
class of aristocrats the core of the
dynasty was located in the northern part
of Hunan the crops of those days were
millet wheat and barley remember the
rice growing region of China is in the
south these ancient dynasties were all
developing in the north in China even
still today wheat is eaten in the north
it's rice in the South I mean everybody
eats everything but as a general rule
you'll see more people eating breads and
noodles in the north than in the south
the Shang used the lunar calendar or
yearly to date all the events of their
time believe it or not the same lunar
calendar was used in China all the way
up to the last century they also
developed a 12 month calendar with 365
and a quarter days all around the world
the great civilizations developing
pretty much all figured that one out can
you imagine though being the first
person four five maybe six thousand
years ago actually keeping track day to
day over a period of 365 days four years
and being the first to understand the
concept of a single year
Pierre in addition to this the shun also
developed the decimal system and had
already begun to develop sophistication
with math and science well let's get
right into the hole bangers and mash
here as far as the xiang is concerned if
you could say anything about the ancient
chinese who developed during the Shang
period these were the people who gave us
Chinese characters the legend has it
that Hansel or junghwan's aka Chinese
characters were invented during the time
of the Yellow Emperor around 26 50 BC by
one of his officials Tong Jian Zhang Jia
had four eyes he's the legendary creator
of Chinese writing Tang Jia didn't leave
any evidence of his existence the
Chinese of the Shang Dynasty
they did but the story behind writing
really begins in the last year of the
19th century in 1899 in and around the
city of onion in Hunan Province all
these so called lone goon started
showing up long means dragon GU means
bone these dragon bones were being dug
up all over onion and the environs
around the Juan River some ended up in
the hands of private Chinese antique
collectors who were fascinated with the
archaic looking characters carved into
the bone some of the bones ended up with
practitioners of Chinese medicine who
ground these bones up into powders used
to cure a variety of ailments along
these ailments was malaria and so it was
in 1899 that the director of the
Imperial College dr. Wong Iran seeking
relief from malaria was given some of
these dragon bones to grind up and
consume now dr. Wong's trained eye
noticed all these inscriptions on these
dragon bones up until this moment in our
recent history the shang dynasty was
about as legendary as the shop there
were a lot of stories and legends and of
course we had some ma Chen's account of
that period a lot of smoke but no fire
well dr. Hwanhee Rong was able to trace
these dragon bones to a village
Shelton outside the city of onion by
1917 mr. Wang Huawei head deciphered the
bone inscriptions of the names of the
Shang Kings and if only somach yen had
lived to see this day
because when the inscriptions were
figured out and they placed the results
side by side with what samat Qin had
written in his Shuji 19 centuries
earlier they matched perfectly Sousa ma
Chen wasn't blowing any smoke well once
these discoveries were made and the
archaeologists figured roughly where the
Xiang Kingdom was situated they started
pulling treasures out of the ground like
you can't believe tomb after tomb bronze
masterpiece after bronze masterpiece and
hundreds of thousands of shells and
bones all inscribed with ancient Chinese
characters and it was through decades of
studying that the whole story of the
Shang and of Shang Society slowly
revealed itself from this time onward
the Shang was no longer a legendary
dynasty from 1928 until the Japanese
invaded China in 1937 they started
excavating Yin Xiu this is where they
discovered the royal palace royal tombs
and a veritable treasure trove of these
dragon bones that were soon thereafter
called oracle bones this script is
called the G aku one oracle bones made
predictions about the future for the
most part these were the scapula's or
shoulder blades of water buffalo or some
kind of cattle the second most prevalent
method was using the shells of tortoises
using these early characters questions
were carved into the bones of the shells
on the opposite side a number of small
pits were carved and into these little
crevices or pits that they carved they
inserted these thin hot metal rods this
would in turn caused the bones or shells
to crack and then the priests would
interpret or divine these cracks and
thus the question was answered then the
answer to the question was carved into
the same bone or the shell and taking it
one step further the actual outcome
would also be carved by one scribe or
another and it was through studying
these art of
and there were a couple hundred thousand
the study that the scientific community
there had been able to piece together
the story of the tion one after another
names of Kings were confirmed style of
government was revealed battles military
history as well as religious beliefs
slowly were discovered in time a fairly
good understanding of Xiang society was
learned and it was also from these bones
that it was learned that the Shang were
constantly at war with outsiders from
near and far
you see eight or nine generations after
Chun Tong founded the dynasty the Shang
had deteriorated into a never-ending
battle between brothers and other
relatives always fighting for power at
the top resources were wasted building
palaces and pleasure domes where Nobles
lived in splendor and luxury it was only
when punkin comes to throne that the
Xiang revives and then reaches its
climax under Wooten pangong who ruled
from 1292 12 63 BC was the ruler who
ripped the whole capital up by its roots
and moved it to him
it wasn't a terribly popular move and no
one common people included wanted to
leave their comfortable surroundings and
start all over somewhere else
nonetheless that's what ended up
happening and pan gung is credited as
the founder of the een dynasty or Ying
Hsiung period and for reviving the
sinking ship that the Xiang had become
now I mentioned Yin Xiu a little bit ago
the last part of the Shang Dynasty as I
mentioned was where the dynasty reached
its height of power and sophistication
the capital was located in the city of
Yin in northern Hunan close to the
borders of Shaanxi and Hebei Shu means
ruins so heinous you simply means the
ruins of Yin from this point on the
dynasty is called the yunxiang or
sometimes just the yin dynasty from yin
twelve Kings ruled for another 255 years
all of these artifacts being pulled from
the ground came from the yin period
we're somewhere near the beginning of
the 14th century BC now the Shang is in
its Golden Age one of the best-preserved
sites at
is the tomb of Phu ha or lady Hall lady
ha was the wife of King Wu ding where
the in Shang reached its greatest
Heights lady ha was not only wife of the
king she was a great military leader in
her own right and led successful
campaigns against some of the Zhang's
enemies her tomb was discovered in the
tumultuous year in China of 1976 1976
will always go down in China as a banner
year
first of all premier Joanne Lai died
then Judah one of the Great's military
heroes and founding fathers Drew's death
was followed in the same month by the
massive 23 second 7.8 on the Richter
scale tung-shun earthquake that killed
over a quarter million inhabitants
then Chairman Mao died and the whole
power grab then ensued amidst all this
in the winter of 1976 the fool Hall move
was discovered move means tomb in this
case so the fool how tomb was discovered
now like King Tut in Egypt fool house
tomb had been discovered undisturbed so
for almost twenty eight centuries the
tombs hidden location had eluded grave
robbers it was open to the public as an
exhibit in 1999 at the Yin Xiu Museum in
onion it's definitely on my list of
places to go the great bronze age Queen
full house tomb had been dated to about
1200 BC and it was positively identified
as fool halls tomb by all the bronze
inscriptions or jinhwan as all these
bronze inscriptions were called buried
with this great Queen and military
leader were all kinds of jade and carved
bone objects things like arrowheads hair
pins and other ornamental objects there
was a massive cache of bronze artifacts
like weapons bells knives mirrors
statues of animals real and mythical
they also uncovered stone objects art
made from ivory and even 69 hundred
pieces of the coin of the realm at the
time cowrie shells found in the burial
chamber of queen/full Hall were the
skeletal remains of six dogs and 16
humans presumably slaves it was already
known at the time
however that the Shang period saw a
degree of human sacrifices the oracle
bones uncovered at the site revealed
that full hall was the greatest military
leader of her time as i said she was the
wife of the 21st Shang Emperor Wu ding
he led the young Shang Dynasty at its
peak and as I said the Ying period of
the Shang was the high point of the
entire Shang Dynasty before we finish up
the Xiang and the evil and wicked Last
Emperor let's look at Xiang writing
Chinese characters first appeared during
this dynasty in both oracle bones and in
these bronze ritual vessels if anything
was committed to paper or some other
organic substrate they've long
disappeared there's been anywhere from
3,000 to 5,000 characters that have been
catalogued from all the findings by
archaeologists having this ability to
communicate and record information and
writing gave the Shang rulers a very
enhanced ability to rule it really
allowed the central authority to spread
his wings out a little wider and
directly control farther areas of the
kingdom anyways the amazing thing about
this early Shang writing is that written
Chinese today basically uses the same
system they came up with over 2,000
years ago the system of writing that
uses a radical to give the character a
general meaning or classification join
together with a phonetic symbol of some
sort to indicate a sound is still used
today and the amazing thing about
Chinese characters ancient and modern is
that they're they're similar to Arabic
numerals and that no matter how you
pronounce them the meaning is always the
same so Chinese writing first starts
appearing between 1500 to 1200 BC
writing was already in use for about a
thousand years in the Indus River Valley
Civilization and for almost a thousand
years before that by the Egyptians
it was the Mesopotamian civilizations
that were the earliest writing appeared
in ancient Sumer as early as 3200 BC a
good 2,000 years before the shang oracle
bones
as I mentioned the Shawn wasn't the only
civilization thriving in China proper I
mentioned sansheng day and su chuan is a
good example but only the Xiang left
this cornucopia of written records of
their existence and of their very
structured and strictly layered society
well all good things have to come to an
end and indeed it came to a smashing and
violent conclusion for the xiang like
the shah before them this dynasty also
suffered from a tyrant who was
remembered in infamy the Shah had
Emperor Jia the Xiang they had Emperor
Jo born D Xin other than being credited
as the creator of chopsticks this
Emperor Jo Xin went down in history as
the worst king of all time it said that
his name jo that's fourth town was a
pejorative name given to him to show
disrespect the Jo was part of a saddle
that was near the horses rump ur
underside and its main role was to keep
the saddle from sliding forward anyways
its strategic location right under or
near the horse's poop chute made it the
likeliest part of the saddle to become
soiled so you can imagine how much they
liked this guy if they gave him a name
like that but like Caligula who was to
follow him almost a hundred centuries
later D Sheen started off good he
supposedly had this amazing strength and
was just a mountain of a man capable of
all kinds of amazing feats it seemed
behind every tyrannical ruler there was
always some evil woman behind the scenes
egging a mind to do the most outrageous
things and this last Xiang Emperor was
no exception in his case it was the evil
tachi whose greatest pleasure was to
watch the painful suffering of others
now d Sheen or Joel Sheen either way he
did a lot of outrageous things on his
own and at the behest of his sadistic
wife there was a book written during the
Ming dynasty's one of the later
dynasties in China that chronicles the
period of the fall of the Shang
the book goes into all kinds of detail
about Joel Sheen's exploits it's called
the function yayyy the creation of the
gods let's see he had this large pit dug
where he had all these poisonous snakes
all riding together at the bottom and
this is where he would cast any
concubines that fail to humor hammer got
him angry he also did the shocking Chea
thing and constructed a lake filled with
alcohol yep
King Joe made this called a jolt road
lien which translates to alcohol pool
and meat forests yeah in the middle of
this man-made lake they created an
island where they had these trees with
branches that were made from shish kabob
skewers from which meats were hung for
those participating in the orgy or
whatever it was that was going on but
the topper of all toppers the one that
every source I read mentioned was the
POW law J Sheen or the cannon burning
punishment now this grisly punishment
was attributed to the Wicked Queen dachi
and you had this long bronze cylinder
like a cannon it was placed into a pit
of white-hot burning charcoal and
through the magic of physics and
thermodynamics the cannon itself would
turn equally hot now whoever it was that
was being punished or was being utilized
as the source of amusement was made to
walk a bare foot on this cannon which of
course was burning hot and to really
make it particularly amusing to the
Queen the cannon would be coated with a
slippery oil which made it even more
impossible to stand on and yeah
ultimately everyone ended up falling
into the charcoal pits where they were
consumed quickly and painfully
so all these antics coupled with his
ruthless and autocratic ways simply
turned his own people against him the
Mandate of Heaven was not with them and
it came to pass an early 1045 BC that
King wool of Joe put an end to Emperor
Joe notice that's Emperor Joe fourth
town who was defeated by King Wu of Joel
that's Joel
first town that's the Joe state two
different characters two different towns
and at the Battle of mooyah the last
Xiang Emperor went down in defeat and
it's from this date that we have the
start of the Joe dynasty the last of
China's Bronze Age dynasties now before
the evil emperor Joe went down for the
count
revolts against the excesses of the king
had broken out all over the Xiang Empire
now the head of the Joe kingdom was ji
Chang better known as King one of jo Jo
Anne Wong he had made the right
alliances and had made the joke Kingdom
the strongest contender among all these
various smaller kingdoms his son was
named chief ah or better known as King
Wu Joey Wong who I just spoke about who
ultimately brought the shang dynasty
down one last little tidbit for you
regarding chee cheong word had been
passed through various sources to the
evil emperor jo xin about ji Chang and
how he was so widely respected by the
people and how various tribes loyal to
the Shang were now doing an about-face
and declaring loyalty to chee cheong jo
xin summons him to the capital at Yin or
present-day on yang and ji Chang
dutifully goes to Joe Xin who
immediately throws him in prison where
as the story goes ji Chang wrote the
eaching or the Book of Changes that
Confucius called the most important of
all the classics it was the ultimate
guide for divination chee cheong after
seven years of imprisonment by Jo Xin
was ultimately set free after the
emperor was given a multitude of bribes
and gifts and lots of gorgeous women and
all kinds of delights so Chi Chang is
set free and at once begins organizing
all the various tribes and peoples and
they pour out of the way river valley
from the west and swept into the xiang
territory and this all culminates as I
said at the Battle of MU yeah and Jo Xin
seeing he was finished supposedly
committed suicide in his Evil Queen
dachi she got beheaded we'll get more
into kinguin and Wu and the Duke of Joe
or Joe Cole in the
Podcast when we look at the Jo dynasty
again another dynasty famous for its
beautiful bronzes starting from the Jo
Chinese culture really begins to get
refined and the stage is being set for
the introduction of all the great
Chinese philosophers we've knocked off
the Shah and the Shang and we have to
joke next then we'll sort of combine the
warring States and spring and autumn
periods into one single podcast and then
maybe we'll stop and do a quick overview
of maybe seven of the great Chinese
philosophers of the time loud sir
Confucius moths among shang yang
confetti and chunsik then we have the
ching dynasty and the first emperor of a
unified China Qin Shi Huangdi who was
our featured subject for the first China
history podcast maybe I'll reload that
podcast for anyone who has come late to
the party and didn't get to download
that one I'm not sure what I did wrong
but iTunes only keeps the 10 most recent
shows so after I upload this one on the
Shang the shows covering Qin Shihuang
the four great inventions the Great Leap
Forward and the intro to five
generations of Chinese leadership won't
be available except for my archive on my
website debt China history podcast calm
so anything you want to download that
you can't get on itunes you go to my
archive at the website which again china
history podcast.com so I might re-upload
that t-shirt Wong episode to keep the
continuity of this dynastic overview
then it's upwards and onwards to the Han
Dynasty as we make our march towards
1911 and so once again this is Laszlo
Montgomery wishing everybody a fond and
appreciative farewell from the City of
Claremont California home of the
illustrious China project at the Center
for process studies located at the
prestigious Claremont School of Theology
join us each week at the China history
podcast for another tasty dim sum from
the vast and sumptuous buffet of Chinese
history